Proofread Contributions (#1)
stiliajohny/Book-The-Tao-of-Terraform: book/mainmatter/chapters/chapter_1_introduction.tex

\chapter{The Philosophy of Infrastructure as Code}

\sloppy

\section{Introduction to Infrastructure as Code (IaC)}

> Infrastructure as Code (IaC) is the modern approach to managing and provisioning IT infrastructure through machine-readable definition files. It eliminates the need for manual intervention in setting up servers, networks, and databases. In the context of Terraform, IaC is about defining infrastructure as a series of declarative configurations, which Terraform then uses to create, modify, and manage resources in a repeatable and predictable manner.

Reviewer: Later in this chapter, the importance of bridging the gap between operations and development teams is mentioned. How do you feel about adding a brief paragraph on the historical context and necessity of Terraform? Understanding its origins can provide valuable insight into its purpose.

Author: I created an issue #5  to resolve that soon 
good point thanks

Author: updated on [0e6b3f2](https://github.com/stiliajohny/Book-The-Tao-of-Terraform/pull/1/commits/0e6b3f20e01baca8b414af29d2877ca7a0e6bd0c)

The core philosophy behind IaC is to treat infrastructure the same way as application code: versioned, tested, and automated. With IaC, infrastructure is no longer a static, one-time setup. It evolves in sync with the software it supports.

\section{The Tao of Automation}

Terraform represents the "Tao" of automation by embracing simplicity in its design and functionality. At its heart, Terraform allows you to describe your infrastructure in simple, readable configuration files. These files, written in HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL), declare what the infrastructure should look like without needing to explicitly define every procedural detail. Terraform then manages the lifecycle of this infrastructure, from creation to destruction, based on these declarations.

Just as the Tao embraces simplicity, Terraform automates infrastructure tasks without burdening the user with unnecessary complexity. It allows you to focus on the goals of your infrastructure, rather than the individual steps required to achieve them.

\section{Simplicity and Clarity in IaC}

> In a world filled with complex tools and frameworks, Terraform stands out by sticking to its principle of simplicity. Its language is declarative, meaning users simply declare what they want rather than how to achieve it. This keeps the mental model clear and ensures that the user is always focused on their desired outcome rather than getting bogged down by implementation details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform simplifies infrastructure management through its HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL). Unlike procedural tools like Ansible that require step-by-step instructions, Terraform uses a declarative approach where users specify their desired end state. The system then determines how to achieve this state by creating a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) of resource dependencies, which guides the order of provisioning, updating, and deletion operations. HCL's low learning curve makes it accessible to developers and enables platform teams to implement self-service infrastructure provisioning. This approach keeps the focus on desired outcomes rather than implementation details.
```

This paragraph feels redundant, but we can add some depth by discussing some Terraform internals (if you agree).

Author: @RoseSecurity  I kind of write the initial text as it resonates more with the way I would talk. 

What are your thoughts on the original? Let's brainstorm.

Reviewer: Feel free to disregard my comment too! My feelings won't be hurt
